# Tutorial: Get started w/ Go

1. Enable dependency tracking for your code.
u
When your code imports packages contained in other modules, you manage those dependencies through your own code's own module. That module is defined by a `go.mod` file that tracks the modules that provide those packages. That `go.mod` file stays w/ your code, including in your source code repository

To enable dependency tracking for your code by creating a `go.mod` file, run the `go mod init` command, giving it the name of the module your code will be in. The name is the module's module path

In actual development, the module path will typically be the repository location where your source code will be kept. For example, the module path might be `github.com/mymodule`. If you plan to publish your module for others to use, the module path *must* be a location from which Go tools can download your module. For more about naming a module w/ a module path, see [Managing dependencies](https://golang.org/doc/modules/managing-dependencies#naming_module)

For the purposes of this tutorial, just use `example/hello`

```zsh
$ go mod init example/hello
go: creating new go.mod: module example/hello
```

2. In your text editor, create a file `hello.go` in which to write your code

3. Paste the following code into your `hello.go` file and save the file

```go
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
    fmt.Println("Hello, World!")
}
```

This is your Go code. In this code, you:

* Declare a `main` package (a package is a way to group functions, and it's made up of all the files in the same directory)

* Import the popular `fmt package`, which contains functions for formatting text, including printing to the console. This package is one of the standard library packages you got when you installed Go

* Implement a `main` function to print a message to the console. A `main` function executes by default when you run the `main` package

4. Run your code to see the greeting

```
$ go run .
Hello, World!
```

## Call code in an external package

When you need your code to do something that might have been implemented by someone else, you can look for a package that has functions you can use in your code

1. Make your printed message a little more interesting w/ a function from an external module

    1. Visit pkg.go.dev and search for a "quote" package

    2. Locate and click the `rsc.io/quote` package in search results (if you see `rsc.io/quote/v3`, ignore it for now)

    3. In the **Documentation** section, under **Index**, note the list of functions you can call from your code. You'll use the `Go` function

    4. At the top of this page, note that package `quote` is included in the `rsc.io/quote` module

You can use the `pkg.go.dev` site to find published modules whose packages have functions you can use in your own code. Packages are published in modules - like `rsc.io/quote` - where others can use them. Modules are improved w/ new versions over time, and you can upgrade your code to use the improved versions

2. In your Go code, import the `rsc.io/quote` package and add a call to its `Go` function

After adding the highlighted lines, your code should include the following:

```go
package main

import "fmt"

import "rsc.io/quote"

func main() {
    fmt.Println(quote.Go())
}
```

3. Add new module requirements and sums.

Go will add the `quote` module as a requirement, as well as a `go.sum` file for use in authenticating the module

```zsh
$ go mod tidy
go: finding module for package rsc.io/quote
go: found rsc.io/quote in rsc.io/quote v1.5.2
```

4. Run your code to see the message generated by the function you're calling

```zsh
$ go run .
Don't communicate by sharing memory, share memory by communicating.
```

Notice that your code calls the `Go` function, printing a clever message about communication

When you ran `go mod tiny`, it located and downloaded the `rsc.io/quote` module that contains the package you imported. By default, it downloaded the latest version - v1.5.2
