# Systems Manager Parameter Store

1. A media company has an Amazon ECS Cluster, which uses the Fargate launch type, to host its news website. The application data are all stored in Amazon Keyspaces (for Apache Cassandra) with data-at-rest encryption enabled. The database credentials should be supplied using environment variables, to comply with strict security compliance. As the Solutions Architect, you have to ensure that the credentials are secure and that they cannot be viewed in plaintext on the cluster itself.

Which of the following is the most suitable solution in this scenario that you can implement with minimal effort?

[ ] Use the AWS Secrets manager to store the database credentials and then encrypt them using AWS Certificate Manager (ACM). Create a resource-based policy for your Amazon EC2 task execution role (`taskRoleArn`) and reference it w/ your task definition which allows access to both ACM and AWS Secrets Manager. Within your container definition, specify secrets w/ the name of the environment variable to set in the container and the full ARN of the Secrets Manager secret which contains the sensitive data, to present to the container.

[ ] In the ECS task definition file of the ECS Cluster, store the database credentials to Amazon ECS Anywhere to centrally manage these sensitive data and securely transmit it to only those containers that need access to it. Allocate an IAM Role to the cluster to ensure that the passwords are only accessible by the ECS service tasks. Run the AWS IAM Access Analyzer to verify that the credentials can't be viewed in plaintext.

[ ] Store the database credentials in the ECS task definition file of the ECS Cluster and encrypt it w/ KMS. Store the task definition JSON file in Amazon Quantum Ledger Database (Amazon QLDB). Create an IAM role to the ECS task definition script that allows access to the Amazon QLDB and then pass the `--cli-input-json` parameter when calling the ECS `register-task-definition` action. Reference the task definition JSON file in the Amazon QLDB which contains the database credentials.

[x] Use the AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store to keep the database credentials and then encrypt them using AWS KMS. Create an IAM Role for your Amazon ECS task execution role (`taskRoleArn`) and reference it w/ your task definition, which allows access to both KMS and the Parameter Store. Within your container definition, specify secrets w/ the name of the environment variable to set in the container and the full ARN of the Systems Manager Parameter Store parameter containing the sensitive data to present to the container.

**Explanation**: **Amazon ECS** enables you to inject sensitive data into your containers by storing your sensitive data in either AWS Secrets Manager secrets or AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store parameters and then referencing them in your container definition. This feature is supported by tasks using both the EC2 and Fargate launch types.

Secrets can be exposed to a container in the following ways:

* To inject sensitive data into your containers as environment variables, use the `secrets` container definition parameter.

* To reference sensitive information in the log configuration of a container, use the `container definition parameter`.

Within your container definition, specify `secrets` with the name of the environment variable to set in the container and the full ARN of either the Secrets Manager secret or Systems Manager Parameter Store parameter containing the sensitive data to present to the container. The parameter that you reference can be from a different Region than the container using it, but must be from within the same account.

> The option that says: **In the ECS task definition file of the ECS Cluster, store the database credentials to Amazon ECS Anywhere to centrally manage these sensitive data and securely transmit it to only those containers that need access to it. Allocate an IAM Role to the cluster to ensure that the passwords are only accessible by the ECS service tasks. Run the AWS IAM Access Analyzer to verify that the credentials can’t be viewed in plaintext** is incorrect. Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) Anywhere is just a feature of Amazon ECS that enables you to easily run and manage container workloads on customer-managed infrastructure. This feature is not capable of storing any kind of credentials, let alone centrally manage your sensitive data. The recommended way to secure sensitive data in AWS is either through the use of Secrets Manager or Systems Manager Parameter Store. In addition, the AWS IAM Access Analyzer is primarily used to identify resources in your organization and accounts that are shared with an external entity, as well as to validate your IAM policies. This service can't verify if your database credentials are viewable in plaintext or not.

> The option that says: **Store the database credentials in the ECS task definition file of the ECS Cluster and encrypt it with KMS. Store the task definition JSON file in Amazon Quantum Ledger Database (Amazon QLDB). Create an IAM role to the ECS task definition script that allows access to the Amazon QLDB and then pass the `--cli-input-json` parameter when calling the ECS `register-task-definition` action. Reference the task definition JSON file in the Amazon QLDB which contains the database credentials** is incorrect. Amazon Quantum Ledger Database (QLDB) is a fully managed ledger database that provides a transparent, immutable, and cryptographically verifiable transaction log. This service is not meant to store your sensitive database credentials.

> The option that says: **Use the AWS Secrets Manager to store the database credentials and then encrypt them using AWS Certificate Manager (ACM). Create a resource-based policy for your Amazon ECS task execution role (`taskRoleArn`) and reference it with your task definition which allows access to both ACM and AWS Secrets Manager. Within your container definition, specify secrets with the name of the environment variable to set in the container and the full ARN of the Secrets Manager secret which contains the sensitive data, to present to the container** is incorrect. Although the use of Secrets Manager in securing sensitive data in ECS is valid, Amazon ECS doesn't support resource-based policies. An example of a resource-based policy is the S3 bucket policy. An ECS task assumes an execution role (IAM role) to be able to call other AWS services like AWS Secrets Manager on your behalf. In addition, you cannot encrypt database credentials using the AWS Certificate Manager (ACM) service. You have to use AWS KMS instead.

<br />
